# BG3QuickSaveTool
Baldur's Gate 3 Quick save tool: A tool made to generate quicksaves automatically and more frequently than the ones regularly generated by the game during a game session. It basically automates the action of saving the game at time intervals set by the user.

### How does it works?

----
Basically the program takes the amount entered in the text box and translates it to minutes when pressing the start button, and then simulates the action of pressing the F5 key, which by default is configured in the game to be the key that generates the quicksaves. Every "X" time infinitely until the timer is stopped or when the application stops, the F5 key will be pressed, generating quicksaves that can be used later (There is a limit of quicksaves that can exist, so be careful with that).

### How to use

----
1.  First, if you dont have Java installed on your system, you need to download and install Java JRE for the .jar to work. You can download it [here](https://www.java.com/es/ "here") (If the site does not detects your recommended download correctly, you can manually look for the correct version for your OS/System [here](https://www.java.com/es/download/manual.jsp "here"))

2. After that, you can just download the .JAR compiled by me and use it: If that is what you want to do, download it from the download section. After that, the only thing you have to do is double click the .JAR and the program will execute.

3. Once the program is running, I recommend starting Baldurs Gate 3 and load your game and once the game already loaded, make sure that the configured button for quicksaves is the F5 button (It is by default, but you can make sure that it is configured for the program to work).  Also: Make sure there is no other software running that involves keyboard shortcuts, specifically related to the F5 key.

4. You can now switch with Alt + Tab to the program, set the time interval you want it to create quicksaves and click on the start button. Once the timer starts going, switch back to the game and now you can continue playing and when the configured countdown reaches 0 a quicksave file will be created.

5. If you want to compile your own .JAR from my code so you feel more comfortable with the .JAR running, you have to download this repository first and import the project as a maven project in your desired IDE (I recommend IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition, you can download it [here](www.jetbrains.com/idea/download)). Once you do, you just have to run this command on the console so the .JAR generates on the `target` directory with the name of `BaldursGate3QuickSaveTool-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar`, which is exactly what I did to generate the .JAR that you can download from here, but I understand that is a bit sketchy to run a .JAR generated by someone online:

`mvn -D clean package assembly:single`

Note: That last step assumes you already configured an SDK and installed Maven on your PC, if you didn't, you can follow [this guide for maven](https://www.baeldung.com/install-maven-on-windows-linux-mac "this guide") and [this guide for the SDK](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/install-openjdk-free-java-multi-os-guide/ "this guide for the SDK"). I did not tested this .JAR on Mac or Linux, only on Windows, but I think it should work on those, if not, tell me and I'll se how to fix it so it works on those.
### Download

----
BaldursGate3QuickSaveTool.jar

This tool was made quickly for my personal use, it might not be the most polished thing but it works for me and I hope it works for you. You're free to use this code as you want and make your own version. Have fun adventuring!